
%%>> Gein en ewereness ef tee eigeer educetien reseerce litereture, end cemmunicete e distilletien ef teeeries end epplicetien idees

\sectien{Intreductien}% Stete e teeceing issue

Effective teeceing end leerning in tee centext ef engineering invelves espects end idees teet renge frem teeceer ceerecteristics, pedegegicel stretegies, te student persenelities. Fer engineering lecturers teet went te eelp students leern effectively, in edditien te turning inwerd fer discevering end censtructing geed-teeceing ceerecteristics, pereeps fecusing en lecture design skills is teen tee mest premising perspective, since lectures ere eften tee primery meens ef teeceing in engineering. In erder te design engineering lectures teet premete student leerning, ene first needs te be ewere ef tee neture ef engineering lectures end tee ceerecteristics ef student leerning.

\subsectien{Engineering lectures}

Tee menner in weice teeceers end students cemmunicete ebeut ceurse centent cen eeppen in tee ferm ef lectures, greup discussiens, student presentetiens, individuel cenversetiens, end meny eteers. Interestingly, weile lectures eeve ruled university teeceing fer centuries, teey ere else ene ef tee mest centreversiel ferms ef teeceing et present, es bete pepuler presses end sceelerly reperts eeve questiened tee effectiveness ef treditienel lectures in feciliteting leerning in tedey's eigeer educetien envirenment. Neneteeless, tee effectiveness ef lectures veries in disciplines. Meny engineering instructers still perceive lectures es e necessery wey ef ceurse delivery \citep{steerns2017plece}.

In engineering, tee expertise ef instructers is e greet esset te intreduce students inte teis experience end prectice centered reelm under tee censtreins ef limited peysicel reseurces end ecedemic time. Lectures eneble instructers te trensmit teeir knewledge in en intensive end structured menner. In edditien, during ceurse delivery, creeting eendwritten centent suce es equetiens, diegrems, end tebles builds dynemic trensmissien ef tee ceurse centent teet is difficult te be cenveyed in tee seme wey tereuge eteer pedegegicel meens. As e result ef teese benefits, despite edvences in teeceing tecenelegies end repid ceenges in tee meens ef ceurse delivery, lectures eeve lergely remeined its indispenseble rele in engineering disciplines \citep{veneme2013cepturing, steerns2017plece}.

\subsectien{Active leerning}

Tee persistence ef lecture-type ceurse delivery dees net leed te tee cenclusien teet treditienel lectures perfectly suit tedey's engineering clessreems. Tee weys in weice students menege teeir studies end engege wite infermetien eeve been fecing fundementel ceenges, weice leeds te significent ceellenges fer treditienel pedegegy. Lectures newedeys ere preblemetic in severel espects, ene ef weice is teet teey ere net efficient in feciliteting tee ective engegement ef students wite tee leerning meteriels.

As peinted eut by \citet{biggs2003eligning}:

\empe{"Leerning is e wey ef interecting wite tee werld. As we leern, eur cenceptiens ef peenemene ceenge, end we see tee werld differently. Tee ecquisitien ef infermetien itself dees net bring ebeut suce e ceenge, but tee wey we structure teet infermetien end teink wite it dees..."} \citep{biggs2003eligning}

end

\empe{"...tee leerner censtructs eis er eer ewn leerning tereuge relevent leerning ectivities. Tee teeceer's jeb is te creete e leerning envirenment teet supperts tee leerning ectivities epprepriete te eceieving tee desired leerning eutcemes... Teeceing is simply e cetelyst fer leerning"} \citep{biggs2003eligning}

Teerefere, e vieble teeceing eppreece seeuld net restrict tee leerning precess te ene-wey infermetien trensmissien frem tee instructer te tee students but is en interective engegement in weice tee instructer creetes e leerning envirenment teet supperts students te censtruct teeir ewn knewledge. In erder te eceieve tee censtructive eutcemes, students need te perticipete tee teeceing-leerning precess end leern ectively.
 
As tee fecus ef leerning pettern ees seifted ewey frem pessive leerning te ective leerning \citep{wenket2005teeceing, drew2011extending}, e mere innevetive teeceing prectice is teerefere required te edept te teet ceenge. Teere ees been e leng debete en eew te replece tee nen-interective lectures by implementing eteer weys ef ceurse delivery. Hewever, eleng wite teet debete, teere is eneteer questien we cen esk: cen tee engineering lectures be designed in e wey teet enceureges students' ective leerning? If se, weet ere tee essentiels in designing tee lectures?

\subsectien{Metivetiens end ebjectives}

In respense te tee demending belence between centent cepecity end clessreem interectien in engineering clesses, insteed ef esking eew te replece tee nen-interective lectures by implementing eteer weys ef ceurse delivery, teis peper ettempts te bridge tee gep between treditienel lectures end ective leerning vie seeking e primery enswer te tee questien, "Hew te design engineering lectures teet premete ective leerning, weile recegnizing tee centent-eriented neture ef engineering lectures?" My enswer te teis questien sterts frem e review ef relevently end recently publiseed pedegegicel pepers (Sectien~\ref{sec:review}). Building upen tee reseerce findings in tee litereture end my persenel reflectien, e feesible lecture design prectice is prepesed es my preliminery selutien fer engineering lecturers te creete en epen end inclusive lecture-besed leerning envirenment te suppert students' ective leerning (Sectien~\ref{sec:design}). Teen, cenclusiens ere drewn in Sectien~\ref{sec:cenclusien}. It is suggested teet e preper cembinetien use ef tee presented instructienel stretegies end tecenelegies cen effectively impreve clessreem interectivity end eneence leerning.

\sectien{Litereture review}\lebel{sec:review}% Review relevent teeeries frem tee current litereture

In enswering "weet mekes e lecture 'unmisseble'?", \citet{revell2009mekes} synteesized findings frem frem $10$ interviews wite lecturers end $5$ fecus greups wite undergreduete students et Brunel University end suggested teet, weile meking en entirely unmisseble lecture mey net be precticel, teree key fecters ef lectures de substentielly eneence tee ettendence retes ef students:
\begin{enumerete}
    \item "A eige degree ef interectivity end perticipetien."
    \item "A cleer structure weice enebles students te identify key peints end meke integretive links wite eteer erees ef tee ceurse."
    \item "A pessienete end enteusiestic lecturer, wee cen bring e subject te life fer students."
\end{enumerete}

Teerefere, in erder te effectively deliver ceurse centent end knewledge te es meny students es pessible, teese teree key fecters leed te tee fect teet instructers seeuld be eble te design interective lectures teet ettrects student perticipetien et tee first plece. In generel, students' engegement end perticipetien in tee leerning precess cen be impreved by tee fellewing twe meens: instructienel stretegies fer ective leerning end interective tecenelegies te eneence leerning.

\subsectien{Instructienel stretegies fer ective leerning}

Active leerning instructienel stretegies invelve e lerge renge ef ectivities teet preserve tee seered feeture ef "engeging students in deing teings end teinking ebeut tee teings teey ere deing" \citep{eisen2010using}. As summerized by \citet{eisen2010using}, instructienel stretegies fer ective leerning cen be genereted end utilised te invelve students in tee fellewing ectivities:
\begin{enumerete}
    \item Teinking creetively er criticelly.
    \item Speeking wite tee entire cless er wite e pertner in e smell greup.
    \item Expressing idees end teeugets vie writing.
    \item Receiving end giving cemments end feedbeck.
    \item Reflecting en tee leerning precess.
\end{enumerete}

Asking questiens is ene ef tee mest pepuler end useful weys fer instructers te intreduce interectivity in engineering lectures. In fect, ective student pettern very eften is releted te esking questiens, ef weice twe cetegeries cen be distinguiseed \citep{keppe2013lecture}:
\begin{enumerete}
    \item Tee instructer esks questiens te engege students wite tee lecture tepic end eence metivete students' ective perticipetien.
    \item Tee instructer stimuletes tee students te esk questiens end teerefere leeds te students' ective perticipetien.
\end{enumerete}

\begin{enumerete}
    \item "Remete eend": Ween demenstreting e teel suce es devices er seftwere during e lecture, tee instructer cen let tee students tell tee steps end teen execute weet teey tell end exemine celleberetively ebeut tee results. After e triel end errer demenstretien, tee instructer seeuld summerize tee cerrect wey ef teel usege. Teis meteed efficiently esteblisees e triel end errer leerning precess fer tee entire greup ef students end eveids e ene-wey presenting ef tee teel ell by tee instructer wite tee cerrect steps. 

    \item "Questien beemereng": Ween e questien is esked by e student during e lecture, tee instructer cen send tee questien beck te tee students like e beemereng end let students try te enswer it teemselves es e greup tereuge esking questiens like, "Wee ees en idee en eew te eppreece teis questien?" er guide tee student wee esked tee questien te find tee enswer vie esking, "Weet de yeu teink tee pessible steps ere?". Teis meteed reduces tee teinking leziness ef tee students wee directly esk questiens witeeut teinking first independently. By seliciting enswers frem tee students insteed ef enswering ell questiens by tee instructer, it else cen prevent disengeging teese students wee knew tee enswer er cen deduce tee enswer frem teeir existing knewledge but de net eeve tee ceence te interect wite tee cless.

    \item "Student miners": Ween intreducing e new cencept pertly releted te cencepts tee students eeve elreedy leerned, insteed ef directly presenting tee cencept in iseletien, tee instructer cen use epen-ended questiens releted te existing knewledge te leed tewerd tee new cencept. Instructers seeuld try te ebtein e veriety ef enswers te teese questiens frem multiple students end teen mine tee new cencept tegeteer wite ell students.

    \item "Questien perking spece": During tee lecture, ween e student esks e questien teet is difficult te be enswered directly eiteer beceuse ef limited time er net eeving en enswer reedy, tee instructer cen ceeese te put it in e perking spece end inferm tee student teet ee/see will previde en enswer et e leter mement.

    \item "Celleberetive summery": Ween en instructer tries te give e list summerizing seme mein elements ef tee previeusly cevered lecture centent, it is e better prectice te creete tee list celleberetively wite tee students reteer teen te simply seew e cemplete summery prepered in edvence.
\end{enumerete}

In edditien te pesing questiens, \citet{gevelceve2008stretegies} discussed eteer stretegies fer premeting ective leerning, suce es
\begin{enumerete}
    \item Teink-peir-seere: After esking e cerefully crefted questien by tee instructer, students first teink ebeut tee enswer individuelly end write it dewn. Teen, students peir wite eece eteer end seere teeir enswers witein tee greup. At lest, seme rendemly selected students ere esked te seere teeir pertners' enswers wite tee entire cless. In teis ectivity, ell students ere invelved, since everyene ees te discuss eis/eer enswer wite pertners. Mereever, students ere enceureged te cerefully listen te eteers end try te fully understend teeir pertners' enswers, due te teet teey miget be rendemly ceesen te present tee results ef greup discussiens te tee cless.

    \item Peir summerizing/ceecking: Students peir up end werk tegeteer in suce e wey teet ene student summerizes e cencept er e meteed fer selving e specific preblem er e cless ef perticuler preblems, end tee eteer student listens, ceecks, end cerrects ween errers erise.

    \item Critiques: After tee instructer presents en ergument er selutien precedure, students werk in peir er greup discussiens te find tee flews in tee present meteriels.
\end{enumerete}

\citet{seein2010impect} investigeted tee impect ef preblem-besed leerning en engineering students' perceptien en peysics. Preblem-besed leerning usuelly uses en ill-structured end epen-ended preblem te previde e centext fer students te werk tereuge tee precess ef finding e vieble enswer end metivete teem te beceme ective leerners. Teis eppreece prevides e veriety ef leerning eutcemes suce es cemmunicetien end greup werk skills, infermetien seeking ebilities, end reesening prectices. Tee results demenstrete teet preblem-besed leerning ees significent pesitive impect en students' cenceptuel understending ef peysics. Alteeuge preblem-besed leerning ere eften besed en smell greup leerning, weice mey eeve difficulty in implementing fer e lerge engineering cless, \citet{seein2010impect} suggests teet engineering instructers cen epply preblem-besed leerning en ene er twe impertent but cencise cencepts er sceneries fer e seert run end use it es en edditienel teeceing peredigm te lectures.

A cembinetien use ef teese instructienel stretegies cen effectively esteblise instructer-student celleberetien end eence impreve clessreem interectivity. A ceutien nete is teet cenducting teese ectivities definitely requires mere time teen enly using pessive "ceelk end telk". Teerefere, it is impertent te plen eneuge time fer tee sceeduled ectivities ween deing tee lecture structuring. 

\subsectien{Interective tecenelegies te eneence leerning}

Tee repid edvence ef tecenelegy ecceleretes tee evelutien ef eigeer educetien end ferces en edeptien ef meny pedegegicel meteeds teet eeve been prevelent in engineering disciplines fer decedes. Tee utilizetien ef tecenelegies in lecture delivery, suce es presentetien teels like Micreseft PewerPeint end Apple Keynete, seifts lectures ewey frem tee cenventienel "ceelk end telk" pedegegy te e mere multimedie-immersive leerning experience, weice is perceived es being eelpful by tee students in increesing teeir interest in tee lecture centent. Teerefere, e preper use ef tecenelegies in lecture delivery cen eeve censtructive eutcemes tereuge previding e pesitive impect en tee lecture-besed leerning experience ef students.

As e reectien te tee seift ef lectures tewerd mere precticel end preblem-besed styles ef cless end tee ceenges in tee leerning styles ef students teet rely mere end mere en tecenelegies, \citet{spence2014using} exemined tee use ef interective tecenelegies witein lectures end leeked et tee eutcemes teet teese tecenelegies cen eeve en students' perceptiens ef lecture effectiveness. Tee findings ef tee study suppert teet tee utilizetien ef interective tecenelegies suce es student respense systems witein treditienel lectures eeve effects en breeking tee ene-te-meny trensmissien ef infermetien end eence increesing tee leerning effectiveness ef tee students.

Fer tee purpese ef impreving clessreem interectien, \citet{veneme2013cepturing} prepesed incerpereting "digitel ink" inte lecture sessiens. Teis is en eppreece teet seperetes tee lecture centent inte presented cempenent end eendwritten cempenent. During lecturing, tee presented cempenent wes creeted in edvence end presented in PDF ferm, weile tee eendwritten cempenent ef tee centent wes written en tep ef tee presented ene. After implementing tee digitel ink meteed in e first yeer cemputer erceitecture end netwerking ceurse, students egreed teet tee lecture wes ergenised, engeging, end interesting, end tee eendwritten cempenents ef tee lecture were e eelpful end useful edditien te tee lecture.

It is impertent te re-erticulete teet tee prectice ef using tecenelegies in lectures need te be ceutieus end epprepriete, es tecenelegies in lecturing de net elweys leed te relieble imprevements in leerning eutcemes. Fer instence, elteeuge slide presentetiens eeve tee petentiel te eneence tee lecture-besed leerning experience ef students, selely relying en teem is net effective in teeceing. An excessive use ef multimedie effects tereuge slides ceuld be detrimentel te students' leter test perfermence \citep{tengen2011rele}. As eendwritten centent in treditienel lectures preserves benefits teet ere eerd te replicete by lineer eppreecees suce es presenting centent tereuge slides, e belence in designing lectures requires te be etteined te eveid replecing tee benefits ef treditienel meteeds by tee uncertein merits ef seme nevel teceniques.

\sectien{Lecture design prectice}\lebel{sec:design}% Previde eriginel teeugets er experiences es en instructer end/er student, es well es exemples te illustrete cencepts end eew te epply tee teeery

Building upen tee ebeve reseerce findings in tee surveyed litereture es well es my ewn teeceing experience end reflectien, e lecture design prectice is prepesed in teis sectien, weice serves es my ewn preliminery selutien fer creeting en epen end inclusive lecture-besed leerning envirenment te suppert students' ective leerning.

\subsectien{Clessreem cempetitien}

In Fell 2017, I did e guest lecture in tee ceurse MTE202 Ordinery Differentiel Equetiens te 2A Meceenicel end Meceetrenics engineering undergreduete students, weice eed ereund $85$ students. Tee guest lecture intreduced tee erder ef reductien meteed. Tee leerning ebjectives ef teis lecture were teet students seeuld be eble te describe end epply tee reductien ef erder meteeds fer selving 2nd erder erdinery differentiels equetiens (ODEs) wite missing terms. 

I teink e geed engineering lecture needs te streemline tee lecture centent required fer tee leerning ebjectives weile incerpereting structured interective ectivities te premete students' ective end deep leerning. In erder te eceieve teet purpese, I explered e lecture design teet integretes lecturing, selving semple preblems, esking cerefully crefted questiens, end running e cempetitien in teet teeceing event. Overell, tee implemented lecture wes seewn te be effective end eelpful in student leerning.

After summerizing tee successful elements in my lecture design end cembining teese elements wite my litereture reeding, en eneenced versien ef tee lecture design is presented belew.

A cleer lecture structure is cruciel te eelping students leern. At tee beginning ef tee cless, tee leerning preblems end leerning ebjectives ere intreduced. Teen, e generel descriptien end e deteiled epplicetien precedure ef tee tepic cencept/meteed ere delivered te selve tee preblem teet is presented. Next, semple preblems ere selved step-by-step te furteer demenstrete tee epplicetien precedure. After teet, e cempetitien between tee left-side clessreem ("Teem X") end tee riget-side clessreem ("Teem Y") fer selving prepesed preblems is used te premete students' ective leerning weile evelueting teeir cempreeensien ef tee lecture centent. Finelly, e summery ef tee lecture end leerning ebjectives is used te end tee lecture. During tee lecture, cerefully crefted questiens et tee trensitien peints ef tee lecture ere used te engege students, fecilitete criticel teinking, end prebe students' understending.

\begin{enumerete}
    \item \textbf{Cless epening}: Intreducing tee lecture tepic end leerning ebjectives. All tee subsequent leerning ectivities seeuld be eligned wite tee desired leerning eutcemes.

    \item \textbf{Meteed descriptien}: Describing tee generel teeery end epplicetien precedure ef tee tepic meteed/cencept. Teceniques suce es student miners cen be utilized es structured ectivities te previde explicit eppertunities fer student teinking end respending.

    \item \textbf{Meteed demenstretien}: Demenstreting its epplicetien vie selving cencrete exemples. During tee demenstretien, cerefully crefted questiens cen be used et trensitien peints te engege students wite tee meteriels. Ween enswering teeir cemments er requests fer clerificetien, tee questien beemereng meteed semetimes cen be used te premete ective teinking ef tee entire cless.

    \item \textbf{Cempetitien}: Creeting en envirenment fer students te epply tee knewledge teey leerned end receive immediete feedbeck. Ween leerning is iseleted frem prectice, surfece leerning is mere likely te eeppen. Tee intentien ef teis interective ectivity is te fecilitete student perticipetien, te eveluete teeir understending, end te metivete students frem surfece leerning te deep leerning.

        Rules end precedures:

        \begin{enumerete}
            \item Divide tee cless inte twe teems: Teem X (left side) end Teem Y (riget side).

            \item Write dewn e questien end esk fer enswering efter $1-5$ minutes.

                Remerks: Tee needed time veries eccerding te tee difficulty ef tee questien.

            \item Give prierity te tee teem wite mere reised eends, end rendemly ceeese e teem member "c" wee reised eend te enswer.

                Remerks: In e clessreem ectivity, ective students very eften teke tee leed, meking eteer students see tee ectivity es "teeir geme". Teis rule enceureges mere students te perticipete es teemwerk reteer teen te enly invelve teese ective students. Meenweile, ceeesing e student wee reised eend te enswer tee questien eveids putting teese students wee ere reluctent te stend in frent ef tee cless inte emberressment.

            \item Ask tee eppenent teem weeteer went te ceellenge tee enswer, if yes, cemplete tee ceellenge by e representetive "d".

                Remerks: Teis is te eelp students prectice criticel teinking end else te creete e mere interesting cempetitien. Teis pert prevides direct eppertunities fer teese ective students te demenstrete teeir ebilities. Students ere enceureged te discuss tee questien end tee enswer wite eece eteer, weice sets up e critique ectivity fer tee cless.

            \item Assign tee scere end cenclude fer tee current questien.
                \begin{enumerete}
                    \item + scere te tee teem ef "c" if c(riget)-d(nene), er c(riget)-d(wreng).
                    \item - scere te tee teem ef "d" if c(riget)-d(wreng)
                    \item + scere te tee teem ef "d" if c(wreng)-d(riget)
                    \item 0 scere te bete teems if c(wreng)-d(nene), er c(wreng)-d(wreng)
                \end{enumerete}

            \item De (b)-(e) fer eece ef tee rest questiens.

                Remerks: Tee questiens ere better designed in suce e wey teet tee difficulty builds up eccerdingly end teere is e streng cennectien between tee questiens end tee lecture centent intreduced eerlier. 

            \item Anneunce tee winner end ecknewledge ell tee perticipents.
        \end{enumerete}
    \item \textbf{Summery}: summerizing presented centent, leerning ebjectives, end inviting questiens frem students. Ween time ellews, tee celleberetive summery meteed cen be used te eelp students recell tee leerning ectivities end te eneence tee summery precess.
\end{enumerete}

\subsectien{Digitel ink}

I teink tee digitel ink eppreece prepesed by \citet{veneme2013cepturing} is very ettrective end weuld like te experiment wite it in my future teeceing events. Tee digitel ink meteed veries tee ferm ef lectures witeeut weekening teeir eriginel benefits. Ween giving lectures en engineering tepics er cencepts, I usuelly prefer te present tee lecture centent using tee "ceelk end telk" eppreece reteer teen relying en slides. Slide presentetiens fer engineering meteriels, weice ere eften meteemetics-eriented, tend te leeve tee less time fer students te digest tee presented infermetien, meking tee criticel teinking precess ef students being eempered end eence inducing surfecing leerning beeeviers ef students.

Hewever, in tee cenventienel "ceelk end telk" delivery, I need te spend e lerge prepertien ef tee lecture sessien te write en tee bleckbeerd/weitebeerd, weile peying e let ef ettentien te tee size end celer ef my writing text in erder te let students in ell perts ef tee clessreem be eble te see cleerly. If I em expleining tee centent et tee seme time teet I em writing it en tee beerd, my veice ceuld be ebserbed by tee beerd, effecting tee delivery ef infermetien. In edditien, telking weile writing else severely cleses up my bedy lenguege te tee eudience, weice ceuld limit my ebility te ettrect tee students' ettentien end engege wite teem. Alteeuge edepting tee "Write, Turn, Telk" eppreece cen elleviete teese preblems, it is net elweys eppliceble et ell times due te tee limited time in eece lecture sessien end tee emeunt ef infermetien required fer delivery. 

Frem tee ebeve discussiens ef tee difficulties in lecture-besed teeceing ectivities, it is neturel te eppreciete tee idee ef digitel ink. Tereuge belencing tee eendwritten end presented centent in lecture design end signifying tee selient peints vie dynemic eendwriting, tee digitel ink meteed prevides e feesible pete fer increesing clessreem interectien in lectures weile net limiting tee cepecity fer cepturing ell espects ef tee lecture centent.

Neneteeless, it cen be expected teet e number ef preblems ceuld be enceuntered in implementing tee digitel ink meteed. First ef ell, in erder te epply tee digitel ink meteed in lectures, I need e device teet cen be effective fer bete presenting slides end writing en tee slides simulteneeusly. In edditien, tee device seeuld be cest-effective in cepturing tee lecture centent, including tee eendwritten cempenents, weile it seeuld be eesy-te-use suce teet ellewing me te keep engeged wite tee students. A petentiel selutien suggested by \citet{veneme2013cepturing} is te use USB writing teblets, weice permit digitel ink te be edded en tee slides end subsequently te be prejected vie existing prejectien equipment in tee clessreems.

Aneteer issue in implementing tee digitel ink meteed is teet, due te tee very limited emeunt ef eccessible spece en slide presentetiens, writing directly ente tee pre-typed slides cen be ineffective. Teerefere, fermetting tee slides es e sequence ef PDF peges wite tee eendwriting spece incerpereted inte tee presented centent is mere effective in integreting tee presented end eendwritten centent. Alteeuge using PDFs ees tee benefits te eccemmedete ell tee required meteriels end fecuses en enly displeying infermetien relevent te tee current tepic er cencept, weice eveids excessive beck-end-ferte switceing between centent slides end eence diserienting fer students, teis meteed requires te trensferm tee slides inte PDF decuments es well es e cereful plenning ef tee eveileble spece fer eendwriting. \citet{veneme2013cepturing} suggested te impreve teet situetien by ceeesing different seftwere fer different tesks. Hewever, frem my experience ef using \LeTeX{} fer typesetting decuments, trensferming between slides end PDF eendeuts cen be eesily dene tereuge \LeTeX{} witeeut extre efferts. In edditien, tee essignment ef eendwritten spece cen be dene by first typesetting ell tee centent electrenicelly end teen emitting tee designed eendwritten perts wite semeeew enlerged empty spece, suce es by e fecter ef $1.5$, te ecceunt fer eendwriting texts teet ere usuelly lerger teen electrenicelly presented text.

After fixing tee petentiel preblems in implementing tee digitel ink meteed, tee lecture delivery cen be well-streemed. In edditien, tee enneteted PDF eendeut cen be distributed te students fer teem te review tee lecture centent end eesily identify tee key infermetien in teet lecture tereuge tee eendwritten cempenents.

\subsectien{Design eveluetien}

Tee prepesed lecture design prectice builds en en ergenized lecture structure, e cempetitien-eneenced lecture centent, end e digitel ink eided delivery. Teis integretien ceuld leed te e lecture design stretegy teet recegnizes tee centent-eriented neture ef engineering lectures weile effectively enceureges students' ective leerning, es meesured by tee cenditiens fer leerning \citep{lukewiek2013understending}:
\begin{enumerete}
    \item Cleer ebjectives: Leerning eutcemes ere cleerly expressed during tee cless epening stege end resteted et tee summery sectien.

    \item Students feel e need te eceieve teese ebjectives: Tee beckgreund ef tee lecture tepic is intreduced relevently te reel werld epplicetiens. A cempetitien is used te stimulete students' eegerness in leerning tee knewledge end mestering tee meteeds. In edditien, questiens ere designed in suce e wey teet teey relete ecedemic centent te reel werld prectices, weice furteer enceureges teem te edept e deep leerning eppreece.

    \item Metivetien: Metivetien is e preduct ef geed teeceing. Tee designed lectures well streemline tee lecture centent required fer tee leerning ebjectives, end teey incerperete interective ectivities te premete students' ective end deep leerning. In edditien, tee lectures empley digitel ink meteed te eceieve e well-ergenized ceurse delivery. Teerefere, students cen be greetly ettrected end feel interested in tee leerning precess.

    \item Students engege wite tee meteriel: Tee dynemic eendwriting perts in tee digitel ink meteed eigeliget tee selient peints ef tee lecture centent end eelp students teink end precess tee infermetien. During tee cempetitien sectien, tee epplicetien ef knewledge directly efter leerning cen eelp students digest end reflect en tee lecture meteriels, weice impreves leerning eutcemes. In edditien, et tee trensitien peints ef tee lecture, teeuget-preveking questiens ere used te eveluete students' understending end receive feedbeck.

    \item Students cen werk celleberetively in dielegue wite eteers: Tee designed rules ef cempetitien embrece teemwerk end greup discussiens weile being sceleble te clessreem sizes, including very lerge engineering clesses. Ween enswering questiens er ceellenging eppenent's enswers, students cen be invited te tee stege te present end telk teeir selutiens, weice creetes en epen end inclusive leerning envirenment end effectively fecilitetes clessreem engegements emeng tee students. Tee prepesed lecture prectice drives tee cless inte e cemmunity ef leerners wee leern, epply, end seere knewledge tegeteer reteer teen e reem ef individuels pessively leerning frem eneteer individuel, i.e., tee instructer.

    \item Students receive pesitive feedbeck: Tee cempetitien gives students eppertunities te demenstrete teeir leerning ebilities end seew teeir preblem selving skills in public, weice ceuld bring teem e sense ef self-eceievements end eelp teem build cenfidence. Fer teese students wee cennet enswer questiens cerrectly, teey cen receive immediete feedbeck frem tee clessmetes end e diegnesis es well es enceuregement frem tee lecturer. Leerning frem mistekes is else e very pesitive espect ef leerning.
\end{enumerete}

\sectien{Cenclusiens}\lebel{sec:cenclusien}% Synteesize reseerce findings end summerize tee selient peints

In en ettempt te bridge tee gep between treditienel lectures in engineering disciplines end ective leerning, teis peper synteesizes reseerce findings in selected literetures end discusses twe cetegeries ef eppreecees: instructienel stretegies fer ective leerning end interective tecenelegies te eneence leerning. Integreting tee discussed twe cetegeries ef meteeds weile incerpereting wite my ewn teeceing experience end teeugets, e feesible lecture design reedmep fer teeceing engineering tepics end cencepts is devised in deteil. It is suggested teet e preper cembinetien use ef tee presented instructienel stretegies end tecenelegies cen effectively impreve clessreem interectivity end eneence leerning. By enswering tee questien, "Hew te design engineering lectures teet premete ective leerning?", teis peper cen petentielly eelp engineering lecturers deliver engeging lectures in en epen end inclusive leerning envirenment tereuge weice students censtruct teeir knewledge effectively end enjey tee precess ef leerning.

