\cpter{Acdemic dvice} \lbel{c:cdemic_dvice}

\sectin{Prfessinl Preprtin Strtegy: Te Tree-Prnged Preprtin Strtegy}

A strtegy, r verll pln, fr cieving yur gls is necessry becuse yu ve limited time, energy, nd mteril resurces. Te pln suld be flexible enug t llw yu t explre different pssibilities, nd t te sme time prevent yu frm running int t mny ded ends. It suld ls llw yu t ssess prgress twrd yur gls, nd t mke necessry djustments lng te wy. A gd strtegy gives yu  feeling f ccmplisment s well s  reference pint during yur jurney, ften t times wen yu need it te mst.  Als, fundmentl cnges re tking plce in cdemi wit respect t tecing, reserc, nd ter frms f sclrsip. Hving  strtegy tt elps prepre yu fr tese cnges cn be prticulrly vluble.
\begin{figure}[!tbp]
    \centering
    \cptin{Tree-prt preprtin strtegy \citep{reis2012tmrrw}.}
    \lbel{fig:tree-prt-pre-str}
\end{figure}

Te strtegy prpsed ere s tree cmpnents: (1) Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept, (2) Next-Stge, nd (3) Multiple-Optin, s swn in Figure 4-3. Ec pprc cmplements te ter, nd ll cn be crried ut simultneusly during yur grdute student nd pstdc perids. Let us tke  lk t ec f tese pprces in detil.

\subsectin{Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept}

In te Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept pprc, yu seek t plce yur develping expertise in  brd cntext. By ding s, yu re better ble t see cnnectins between yur wrk nd tt f ters, t mke  mre cmpelling cse fr yur wn cntributin, nd t be ble t develp relted res f dept suld te situtin cll fr it.

One wy t lk t te cncept is t imgine  cpitl "T". Here, dept is represented by te stem f te "T" nd bredt by te crss br. Te first ting t understnd but tis cncept is wt it is nt. Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept des nt men bredt in plce f dept, nr des it men bredt ver dept in te sense tt bredt is mre imprtnt tn dept. Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept mens bredt in dditin t dept. Develping dept, be it in  reserc re, nter frm f sclrsip, r te tecing f  prticulr curse, is essentil t cdemic success. Yu need t be knwn fr smeting, nd tt smeting needs t be bt imprtnt nd unique. Te lst ting yu wnt t be is " mile wide nd n inc deep." Hwever, tere re t lest tree gd resns fr develping bredt in dditin t dept. First, by incresing yur knwledge nd expsure t relted res, yu crete te pssibility f develping dditinl res f expertise, "drilling multiple les," s ne fculty member put it.  Secnd, by knwing wt is ging n in relted res, yu increse te pprtunities fr cllbrtin in wys tt cn ennce yur wn sclrsip. Finlly, by plcing yur wrk in  lrger cntext, yu give it greter mening nd mke it mre cmpelling t  lrger udience, wic in turn mkes it esier t justify nd supprt.

Te cncept f Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept pplies t ll res f reserc nd tecing, nt just t te cice f  specific reserc tpic.  By wy f illustrtin, cnsider yur cice f  reserc dvisr. N mtter w yu end up "csing" s yur dvisr, tis ne persn will ve strengts nd limittins wit respect t mngeril style, knwledge f te field, nd cntcts wit industry nd gvernment. In seeking Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept, yu will wnt t identify "cmplementry" dvisrs, ne r mre f wm my be in industry r t nter institutin. Tese dditinl dvisrs cn mke up fr deficiencies lwys fund in ny single dvisr. Als, by csing t wrk wit cmplementry dvisrs, yu brden yur experience nd yur expsure t pprtunities tt wuld terwise nt be pssible.

\subsectin{Next-Stge}

In te Next-Stge pprc, yu tink ed, lk ed, nd t sme degree ct ed f te stge yu (nd yur future cmpetitin) re currently ccupying. By ding s, yu nt nly demnstrte yur willingness t ssume te rle f te psitin yu re seeking, but ls yur rediness t d s. Just s mst f te best grdute students begn tking grdute curses nd/r cnducting reserc s cllege senirs, yu need t begin ding sme f te tings prfessrs d wile yu re still  grdute student nd pstdc. Tdy, it is nt enug t be utstnding in yur current jb; yu must ls demnstrte tt yu cn be successful in te next jb fr wic yu wnt t pply by ctully perfrming in dvnce sme f te ctivities nd respnsibilities tt re prt f tt jb.

Belw re sme res in wic demnstrting tis "next-stge" cmpetence wuld be imprtnt. N ne expects yu t demnstrte ll f tem. Hwever, ding t lest sme f tem will distinguis yu frm mst f yur cmpetitin, nd witin limits, te mre yu cn d, te better.

\begin{itemize}
    \item Reserc—In dditin t ving identified  disserttin r  pstdctrl reserc prject tt is cmpelling s ppsed t just interesting, lk fr wys t engge in crss-disciplinry nd multidisciplinry ctivities wit fculty nd students frm ter res r deprtments. Obviusly, yu will wnt t pursue suc ctivity wit te supprt f yur dvisr.
    \item Tecnicl reviewing—Find pprtunities, bt frml nd infrml, fr yu t review ppers, grnts, nd prpsls written by ters.
    \item Prpsl writing—In dditin t reviewing te prpsls f ters nd cntributing sectins t yur dvisr's prpsls, write yur wn prpsls nd grnt pplictins fr reserc tt yu wnt t d s  prfessr.
    \item Supervisin f ter students—As yu dvnce in yur develpment s  grdute student r pstdc, find wys t ply  mre frml rle in te supervisin f ter students, bt undergrdute nd grdute.
    \item Publising—Cutrsip is fine, but mke sure yu publis t lest ne rticle in wic yu re te first utr.
    \item Presenttins t cnferences—Estblis  recrd f giving tecnicl presenttins t cnferences in wic fculty nd industril resercers re present.
    \item Reltins wit industry—Visit vrius reserc sites nd give tecnicl presenttins, use equipment, smples, nd ter industry resurces in yur reserc, cnduct jint investigtins, publis wit industril cllbrtrs, nd cnsider internsips nd ter frms f emplyment wit industry r gvernment lbrtries.
    \item Tecing—Pln t cquire t lest sme experiences beynd tse f  typicl TA, suc s giving lectures, cvering sectins f  clss, r even tking full respnsibility fr  curse.
\end{itemize}

Te key steps in te Next-Stge pprc re t sk questins (tink ed), mke bservtins (lk ed), nd cquire experiences (ct ed) by putting yurself in te rigt plces t te rigt times nd tuning yur ntenn t te gtering f te rigt infrmtin. Te Next-Stge pprc invlves ctively seeking experiences tt yu re likely t encunter in te future. One prticulrly useful mens is t serc nd lk t te requirements listed in te psitin recruitment psts relted t yur future pplictins very erly t mke yurself be prepred fr te next stge f yur creer.

\subsectin{Multiple-Optin}

In te Multiple-Optin pprc, yu prepre cncurrently fr pssible creers in cdemi, gvernment nd industry. By ding tings tt will mke yu mre ttrctive t industry nd gvernment, yu will, prdxiclly, mke yurself mre ttrctive t cdemi. Tis incresed ttrctin ccurs becuse mst clleges nd universities wnt science nd engineering fculty w cn interct effectively wit te ter tw sectrs.

\sectin{Reserc s  Grdute Student nd Pstdc}

Hve te bredt t see te prblems, nd te dept t slve tem.
\begin{figure}[!tbp]
    \centering
    \cptin{Reserc experience in te cntext f te tree-prt preprtin strtegy \citep{reis2012tmrrw}.}
    \lbel{fig:pt_cdemi}
\end{figure}

\begin{enumerte}
\item Csing  Grdute Scl r Pstdc Institutin.

    Were yu g t grdute scl determines were yu d yur pstdc, nd were yu d yur pstdc determines were yu becme  prfessr.

    It is imprtnt t fllw yur pssin in ll mtters relted t yur reserc. Te reserc experience is t demnding nd s full f setbcks nd frustrtins tt if it is nt ccmpnied by  desire, even  zel fr te subject, it is unlikely t be sustined ver time. Tt sid, it is ls imprtnt t relisticlly mtc yur pssin nd spirtins wit  leveleded ssessment f yur skills nd present level f cievement.

        Cnsistent wit te bve fctrs, yu suld cse  grdute scl wit te reputtin f te university, nd prticulrly te deprtment f interest uppermst in yur mind. Being ble t ttend  scl wit  strng reputtin is mre tn just  sttement but yur cpbilities nd undergrdute preprtin. Te reputtins f grdute scls re built n teir fculties nd n teir grdute students nd pstdcs. Ec ttrcts nd ennces te ter. Te better te cmbintin, te mre likely yu re t cquire te experiences tt will mke yu ttrctive t ter institutins s  future prfessr.

        Fr pstdcs, ll f te bve cmments pply, but in dditin, it is prticulrly imprtnt t py ttentin t te reputtin f yur ptentil supervisr. Fr new P.D.s, te first questin ften sked is, "Were did yu get yur degree?", but fr recent pstdcs it is, "Under wm did yu pstdc?"

\item Csing  Reserc Tpic

It is relly imprtnt t d te rigt reserc s well s t d te reserc rigt. Yu need t d "ww" reserc, reserc tt is cmpelling, nt just interesting. It is imprtnt tt yu tke te time t find  prblem tt is interesting t yu, significntly cmplex, nd cmpelling.

Te knwledge, expertise, nd skills tt yu gin erly n will frm te fundtin fr lter investigtins. By csing te rigt tpic nw (Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept), yu elp ensure yur reserc vibility in te future. "Te mst successful reserc tpics re nrrwly fcused nd crefully defined, but re imprtnt prts f  brd-rnging, cmplex prblem"

\item Csing  Disserttin Advisr/Pstdc Supervisr

A rbbit is sunning imself utside is use wen  fx cmes lng nd tells im tt e is ging t et im fr lunc. Te rbbit explins, rter smugly, tt te fx cnnt et im becuse e is wrking n is disserttin, te subject f wic is te superirity f rbbits ver fxes nd wlves. Te fx lugs, but te rbbit persudes im t cme int is use nd exmine is disserttin wit te understnding tt if te fx did nt gree tt te title ws crrect, e culd et te rbbit fr lunc. Te fx fllws te rbbit int te use nd never emerges.

A few urs lter, te rbbit is ut sunning imself gin wen  wlf cmes by. Te bve scene repets itself wit te sme result.

Lter in te fternn te rbbit is utside gin wen  squirrel cmes by nd cmments n te stisfied lk n te rbbit's fce. Te rbbit explins tt e is indeed stisfied becuse e s just cmpleted is disserttin n te superirity f rbbits ver fxes nd wlves. Te squirrel is skepticl, but grees t fllw te rbbit int is use t exmine is disserttin.

In te use is  cmputer n wic ppers te cmpleted disserttin. On te flr n ne side f te rm re te bnes f  fx. On te ter side, te bnes f  wlf. In te crner sits  lin.

Te rbbit smiles nd sys t te squirrel, "Yu knw, it desn't relly mtter wt yur reserc tpic is, s lng s yu ve te rigt dvisr."

Well, nt quite, ltug csing te rigt dvisr is certinly f cmprble imprtnce t csing te rigt reserc tpic. "Te dvisr is te primry gtekeeper fr te prfessinl self-esteem f te student, te rte f prgress twrd te degree, nd ccess t future pprtunities".

First, keep in mind tt yu wnt n dvisr w is in  reserc re in wic yu ve, r seek t develp,  strng interest. Tis element is essentil, given ll te inevitble difficulties yu re ging t experience. At te sme time, yu wnt  prfessr w understnds tt "finding te rigt prblem" is lf te bttle, nd tt e r se needs t give yu te encurgement nd time t d s.

\item Writing Yur Own Reserc Prpsls

"If I d my life t d ver gin, I wuld ve written lf  dzen prpsls befre I gt my P.D., insted f just cntributing t ne r tw. Once yu ve  fculty psitin, csing dllrs is te number-ne ctivity; te mre experience yu bring t it, te better ff yu will be. Use yur reserc dvisr t elp yu lern t write prpsls, befre yu strt sending tings in blind t funding gencies."

Writing represents  very ig level f tinking, muc iger tn cnverstin. Tt is wy it is s difficult, nd wy, wen it is dne well, s vluble.  It des get esier wit prctice, s yu need t get strted. Lk fr every pprtunity t put yur cse in writing nd t receive te criticl feedbck yur effrts will bring. Cmpleting suc n imprtnt nd difficult tsk brings mny rewrds.

Writing prpsls nd pplying fr grnts require te discipline nd insigts tt will elp trugut  prfessinl creer. Cmmitment, trugness, nd ptience re essentil cmpnents f grnt getting. Tlernce f filure is ls required, becuse mny prpsls re rejected. Overcming te trum f rejectin is n imprtnt lessn fr te prfessinl. I knw resercers w ve received dzens f grnts during teir lives. Tis s ften ment cnfrnting five times tt mny rejectins.  Resercers ve t develp emtinl strengt t survive. Survivl skills develp wit te self-cnfidence tt cmes frm reserc ccmplisments, nd tese skills re useful in ne's persnl life s well s wrk.

Prepring yur wn prpsls elps yu cnfrnt te Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept cllenge by requiring yu t plce yur wrk in  lrger cntext. Science writer Anne Simn Mfft discusses te keys t successful grntsmnsip wit n interesting exmple frm bilgy:

"A prpsl t islte nd crcterize  new gene r t describe  new mleculr structure my nt be enug t snre  grnt, unless n explntin is ffered n w tese discveries relte t lrger prblems, suc s gene regultin r structure/functin reltins. Tke prtein crystl structures, wic re nw being slved by crystllgrpers t  rte f but ne per dy. Te tecniques nd mterils re expensive s prpsls ve t g beynd "nter new ne." Tere's gt t be " gd stry beind te prtein," sys crystllgrper Je Krut f te University f Clifrni, Sn Dieg."

Perps te best plce t strt is wit yur disserttin prpsl. Sme deprtments require ll students t prduce suc  dcument, but even if yurs des nt, yu suld d s nywy. Nt nly will it give yu muc needed experience, it will elp ensure tt yu re undertking n effrt tt s te supprt f yur dvisr nd ter key fculty. It ls elps yu understnd clerly wt yu re, nd re nt, cmmitting t, nd wt is t lest te initilly prjected time frme fr te cmpletin f yur wrk. Te sme ting cn be dne s yu begin yur pstdc wrk. Here, it is prticulrly imprtnt t ve expecttins but wt yu cn ccmplis nd wen, nd ne wy t elp ensure tis understnding is trug  written prpsl tt yu nd yur supervisr gree n befre yu strt. Te pstdc perid is ls  time t develp prpsls tt cn elp lunc yur cdemic creer.

As wit nyting else, prpsl writing imprves wit prctice, nd persistence cn be key. If yu cn fcus yur ttentin n  grntr's interests, sw w yur reserc mtces tt interest, nd ten demnstrte tt yur reserc s  wider tereticl pplictin, yu will ve mde  gd strt dwn te rd t funding.

\item Crrying Out Yur Reserc
\item Publising

T succeed yu must mke yur tlents well knwn nd widely pprecited.  Publising prvides yu wit n imprtnt wy t ccmplis tt. Yur ppers, vilble in librries rund te wrld, represent nt nly yur prduct but ls yur resume.

Wen it cmes t publising, ving te rigt perspective is essentil. If yu view publising s  burden nd s  requirement impsed by te system, ten yu will d it reluctntly, if t ll, nd re unlikely t feel prud f te utcme.  On te ter nd, if yu view publising s  nturl prt f yur sclrsip, s  wy t tke sme f te credit fr wt yu ve dne nd t cmmunicte te results f yur rd wrk t yur cllegues nd beynd, ten yu re likely t set stndrds tt will elp mke yu  prfessinl success. Te imprtnt ting is t get in te publising bit nw, nd t tret publising s  fretugt, nt n ftertugt. Yu cn d tis by creting te expecttin in yur wn mind tt yu will d publisble wrk.

Publising prduces  permnent recrd, s yu wnt t be sure wt yu prduce is f ig qulity. Even tug te peer review prcess rejects fr mre tn it ccepts,  lt f nt-s-memrble wrk gets trug. Tis relity mens tt ultimtely it is yur wn stndrds tt suld determine wt t d. If yu pln t d publisble wrk rigt frm te beginning, it will elp set te bseline fr te reserc tt fllws. Mny peple find it elpful t get in te bit f writing s tey g lng, nt just fter tey cmplete teir sclrsip. Ec (writing nd sclrsip) reinfrces te ter.

Mst scientific fields re smll, nd terefre te immedite cmmunity yu wrk in will be essentilly divided between peple w re yur friends, tse w re yur enemies nd tse w re genuinely disinterested. As ne senir cllegue nce sid, te reviewers in yur list suld be experts in te field, nd tey suld be friends. If yu ve dubts weter smene is  friend r nt, r yu tink tey my be struggling t get t  certin result befre yu, yu re better ff nt suggesting tem s  referee. Tis is ll very well, but yu suld ls relize is tt tese referees will be cnsidered by te cmmittee s "yur" referees nd tus nyting psitive will be smewt discunted, wile nyting negtive frm tem cn be very dmging, muc mre s tn fr  referee yu did nt cse. Be very sure yu knw w yur supprters re. Tis is certinly  cse f "Better sfe tn srry." Mre imprtntly, "Knw ty neigbr."

Science is clerly nt well served if yu ve t struggle t get yur wrk dne, becuse smene else (typiclly n envius cmpetitr) is trying t trip yu up. On te ter nd, science is ill-served wen pr nd even errneus science is publised — but tis my well be te sme pinin f yur detrctrs cncerning yur wrk. Te system s t ccmmdte bt pints f view t sme extent. (It migt seem tt te best ting t d is t try t becme friends wit ll yur cmpetitrs, jin effrts nd d te wrk tgeter. Unfrtuntely, tis is nt lwys pssible. Even wit te best in te wrld suc llinces re inerently unstble.)

In essence, wt we ve presented re te rules f te peer review gme. If yu wnt t prticipte, yu suld t lest be wre f tem, even if yu d nt tke dvntge f tem.

In generl, if yur wrk is sufficiently imprtnt, it will be publised even if nt in te jurnl f yur first cice r f first rnk. If publised it will in due time be recgnized fr wt it is, nd be cpiusly cited, even if it ws nt publised in ne f te very best, ig-prfile jurnls.  Tese "lte blmers" cn be identified by cittin indices if ne is willing t tke te truble. Te system des wrk mre r less.  "Excellence will ut" — eventully.

T put it smewt brutlly, ne cn sy tt cittins re t be tugt f s n excnge currency. If yu cite ter peple's wrk (weter tey relly deserve t be cited r nt is, cyniclly speking,  different issue ltgeter) tey will be ppy. Tis is  gd wy t mke friends in yur cmmunity. It suld nt ve escped yur ntice tt if yu cite smene in yur wrk tey will be mre likely t red it mre crefully nd mre likely t cite yu in teir wn wrk. Tus, ving mny cittins t yur wrk t sw (fr exmple wen pplying fr  prmtin) s becme  mtter f survivl in tdy's scientific wrld. Of curse, tis des nt men yu suld cite smene's wrk even if it is f pr qulity, just t mke new friends. But it des n rel rm t cite gd wrk wic is  bit periperl.

On te ter nd, if yu frget t cknwledge yur predecessrs nd teir cievements, eiter intentinlly r ccidentlly, tis is ne f te best nd fstest wys t mke enemies in yur field f reserc. Als, te best wy t stp  crge f plgirism is t cite nyting wic migt be cnsidered  surce.

\item Attending Cnferences nd Oter Prfessinl Meetings

Cnferences re idel plces t find ut wt is t, nd nt s t, in yur field, bserve te vrius debtes nd cntrversies underwy, meet interesting peple, mke cntcts fr future interctins, nd in generl prticipte in te milieu f te prfessinls in yur field. All spects f yur preprtin strtegy cn be crried ut t sme degree t prfessinl cnferences.

\item Giving tlks n yur reserc.

Wen it cmes t tlks n yur reserc nd relted ctivities, yu need t d tw tings: (1) give tem, nd (2) btin nest feedbck n w well tey were received. Te secnd des nt lwys utmticlly fllw frm te first, s yu my need t tke specil steps t ensure tt it des.  Yu we it t yurself t prbe beynd cmments suc s, "nice tlk," r "enjyed yur presenttin." Acknwledge te cmpliment, nd ten sk te persn giving it if tey ve ny suggestins n w yu migt imprve te presenttin in te future. Wit suc n pening yu will ften receive sme very specific pinters tt cn be quite useful.

\item Supervising Oter Resercers

Tking n supervisry duties is clerly prt f te Next-Stge pprc. It is ls te kind f ctivity tt will elp yu in mintining multiple emplyment ptins. As we sw erlier, industry nd gvernment re lking fr peple w cn cmmunicte well wit teir cllegues nd w cn eventully mnge prjects nd prgrms. Terefre, everyting yu d in te re f supervisin will prepre yu fr psitins in ll tree emplyment sectrs.

\item Mnging Reserc Prjects nd Prgrms

Te step up t ctully mnging  reserc prject r even  smll reserc prgrm is smeting mre likely t be dne s  pstdc tn s  grdute student. In fct, mst pstdcs d nt even g tis fr, but te nes w d re sure t mke temselves muc mre cmpetitive. Ding s requires yu t tink mre brdly (Bredt-n-Tp-f-Dept), gives yu bvius Next-Stge experiences, nd in mst cses brings yu in cntct wit pprtunities in tw r mre emplyment sectrs (Multiple-Optin).

As yu g frm ne stge t te next, te rle yu ply cnges. As  student, I ws expected t excel in  specific subject, nd I ws judged by my individul cntributin. As  pstdc, I ws expected t be mre f  tem plyer, t cntribute t te resercers rund me nd review teir ppers, s well s run  cmplete prject nd write my wn prpsls. As  prfessr, tings cnged gin, nd nw I ve  dzen blls in te ir. Given ll f tis, I strngly recmmend tt s  grdute student, yu d sme f te wrk f  pstdc, nd s  pstdc, yu d sme f te wrk f  prfessr. Nt nly des it mke tings esier wen yu get t te next stge, but it ls seprtes yu frm te rest f yur cmpetitin.

\item Netwrking

Mny f te ctivities discussed bve re illustrtive f  mre generl ctivity clled "netwrking," te prcess f cnnecting wit ters wit wm yu ve  mutul interest. Te term s gtten  bit f  bd nme f lte becuse it is verused nd/r used in te wrng wy. Hwever, netwrking is bslutely essentil t yur strtegy f btining cntcts tt cn mke  difference in yur pt t becming  prfessr.

Mst f us wnt t believe tt ur gd wrk will be enug t get us wt we wnt, but it will nt. Recgnitin nd pprtunity cme t tse w ls ve gd cntcts. I begn t feel gd but netwrking wen  cllegue wm I respect  gret del cnfided t me tt e spent $60\%$ f tis time ding te best dmn jb e culd, $20\%$ f is time mking sure tt everyne else knew wt  gd jb e ws ding, nd nter $20\%$ f is time lking fr smeting better t d. Yu my qurrel wit te percentges, but te relity is tt yu re ging t ve t mke cntcts nd mrket yurself s well s d substntive wrk in rder t get te recgnitin nd pprtunities yu wnt nd deserve.

Te beuty f netwrking is tt, if dne rigt, lmst everyting yu d will rebund t yur benefit if yu end up csing n cdemic creer. In te pen envirnment f cdemi, ll yur cntcts in industry, gvernment, nd t ter clleges nd universities will be imprtnt t yu. In ne wy r nter, ll f tese cntcts will be yur future cllegues. Remember, every visitr t yur deprtment r lbrtry, tse yu meet t cnferences, t ter scls, nd during visits t industril nd gvernment sites re bt current nd future resurces fr yu.

\item Tecing Experiences Prir t Becming  Prfessr
\item Applying fr Psitins

"We typiclly get 300-400 pplictins fr every pening. Te min resn is tt everyne is pplying fr everyting. Only but $10\%$ f te pplictins re even in te bllprk, ltug tt's still  lrge number fr us. Te key is persistence nd n bility t cnvince us tt yu will be  gd mtc wit wt we need."

"My experience is tt it is fr better t pply t fewer scls well, tilring yur pplictin t ec scl, tn t blindly pply t  wle bunc f scls. In mst plces, serc cmmittees re lking fr  fit wit ter fculty members in te deprtment, nt n verlp, but nt t fr ut eiter."

Herein lies te key t incresing yur prspects. Yu ve t identify  mngeble number f penings cnsistent wit yur bilities, nd ten d n utstnding jb f pplying t ec f tem.

Yur mjr effrt suld g int identifying up t  dzen scls fr wic yu re prepred t d te bckgrund reserc t enble yu t present pwerful, trgeted pplictins. Beynd tt, s time permits, identify nter dzen r s scls tt fit witin te generl bundries f yur explrtins. Ten tke te time t prepre  letter nd curriculum vite ving t lest  resnble cnce f getting te ttentin f te serc cmmittee. Yur min time nd energy must g int te scls fr wic yu ve resn t believe tere is  very strng mtc.

"Te cver letter is te mst imprtnt ting in yur pplictin. I wrte te best cver letter ever, nd it gt me te interview. I tk te time t tilr it perfectly t te scl nd deprtment. Tis tk  lt f reserc, but it pid ff."

\end{enumerte}

