\cpter{Summry nd Future Wrk}
\lbel{c:pln}

\sectin{Summry}

    Te explsive dispersl f grnulr mterils invlves cmplex multipse interctins, suc s cupled sck-sck, sck-prticle, nd prticle-prticle interctins. Under ig rtes f mmentum nd energy trnsfer resulting frm sck cmpctin nd subsequent expnsin flw, te messcle interctins re effectively ennced nd lter re mnifested vi cmplex mcrscle penmen s te expnsin prceeds. In prticulr, influencing te mss cncentrtin nd relted prticle rectin nd energy relese, te frmtin f cerent prticle clustering nd jetting structures is f significnt interest t study flw instbility nd turbulent mixing in etergeneus detntin nd explsin.


    A numericl frmewrk tt integrtes pertr splitting fr prtitined fluid-slid interctin in te time dmin, 2nd/3rd rder strng stbility-preserving Runge--Kutt metds nd 3rd/5t rder weigted essentilly nnscilltry scemes fr ig-reslutin temp-sptil discretiztin, te frnt-trcking metd fr evlving pse interfces,  new field functin develped fr fcilitting te slutin f cmplex nd dynmic fluid-slid systems n Crtesin grids,  new cllisin mdel develped fr deterministic multibdy cntct nd cllisin wit prmeterized cefficients f restitutin nd frictin, nd  new immersed bundry metd develped fr treting rbitrrily irregulr nd mving bundries s been develped nd vlidted. On te bsis f te develped frmewrk,  Crtesin, 3D, ig-reslutin, prllelized, gs-slid flw slver s been develped wit te cpbility f tckling scked flw cnditins, irregulr nd mving gemetries, nd multibdy cllisins. Te develped frmewrk nd slver cn ccurtely, efficiently, nd rbustly slve cupled fluid-fluid, fluid-slid, nd slid-slid interctins wit flw cnditins rnging frm subsnic t ypersnic sttes.

     Emplying te develped frmewrk, direct simultins tt cpture cupled multipse interctins nd deterministic messcle grnulr dynmics were cnducted t investigte prticle clustering nd jetting instbilities. Te numericl investigtin cnsidered  2D strtified burster-pyld cnfigurtin wit  cylindricl crge spe, in wic te prticle psitins nd sizes were generted by  rndm smpling lgritm t cieve stcstic pyld mrplgies. Emplying te tery f Gurney velcity,  vlid sttisticl dissiptive prperty f te frmewrk in slving explsively dispersed grnulr mterils ws demnstrted. Te predicted surfce expnsin velcities igly preserved te Gurney-energy-relted velcity scling lw nt nly t te end f but ls trugut te slutin time. In dditin,  dissiptin nlysis f te current discrete mdeling f grnulr pylds suggests incrprting te effects f prsity cn ennce te predictin f Gurney velcity fr explsively dispersed grnulr pylds. Using results btined frm direct simultins, n explntin fr prticle clustering nd jetting instbilities ws prpsed.

\sectin{Future wrk}

In te investigtin f prticle cluster nd jet frmtin, simplifictins n te pysicl mdel ve been mde t utline te min fetures f te pysicl prblem nd t mke te direct simultins fesible in te current stge. Nneteless, lleviting te mdel simplifictins culd ennce te results nd led t te discvery f new penmen. Terefre, tree min spects f mdel imprvements re discussed belw nd cn be cnsidered s te primry reserc tpics fr future wrk.

\prgrp{Multibdy cllisin mdel}

In te current study,  deterministic multibdy cllisin mdel built n exct pirwise cllisin is used. Altug prviding  deterministic pprc fr pprximting multibdy cllisin respnse wit prmeterized elsticity nd frictin, te current mdel is nt ble t slve multibdy cllisins in generl exctly. Terefre, te develpment f  genuine multibdy cllisin mdel cn be f significnt vlue in te messcle mdeling f grnulr mterils.

In dditin, te cmputtinl ld f  messcle mdel is lwer bunded by te rti between te lrgest nd smllest reslved scles fr te trget system. Being cmputtin-intensive, messcle mdeling is currently nt pplicble t lrge-scle prcticl systems, fr wic mcrscle mdeling is still te mst vible pprc \citep{sen2018evlutin}. Terefre, te develped multibdy cllisin mdel cn be dpted t refine binry cllisin-bsed kinetic teries fr grnulr mterils. Te refined kinetic tery cn subsequently be used t develp ennced clsure lws fr mcrscle mdels cvering flw regimes wit vrying gittin levels nd dense-t-dilute trnsitins.

\prgrp{Defrmtin nd frgmenttin}

Wen grnulr mterils re explsively dispersed, individul prticles re cmpressed nd ccelerted by te surrunding ig-pressure wves, experiencing cllisin, gglmertin, defrmtin, nd even frgmenttin. In te current study, prticles re ssumed t be nn-defrmble bdies. Terefre, in rder t ennce te pysics invlved in direct simultins, future reserc cn cnsider extending te current mdel wit defrmble bdies nd frgmenttin prcesses. Fr instnce, te Mie--Gruneisen \citep{mie1908beitrge, gruneisen1912terie} equtin f stte nd te Jnsn-Ck strengt mdel \citep{jnsn1985frcture} cn be dpted t describe slids wit defrmtin nd frgmenttin bevirs.

\prgrp{Prlleliztin nd lrge-scle cmputtin}

In te current investigtin f prticle cluster nd jet frmtin, te mximum number f prticles invlved in te dispersl system is t te mgnitude f $10^3$, wic is fr less tn tt in  prcticl pyld nd culd limit te cmprisn between numericl results nd experimentlly bserved prticle clud expnsins. Terefre, simultins n stcstic pylds wit lrger sizes nd lnger run times re t be perfrmed in future studies. T increse te number f prticles inevitbly demnds  iger cmputtinl cpcity. Te prlleliztin f fluid-slid systems wit dense prticles impses gret cllenges n te dt cmmunictin nd ld blncing f MPI-bsed prllelism, s tese system generlly d nt cnfrm t te Single Prcess, Multiple Dt pttern f cmputtin. Altug being flexible in prllelizing lrge-scle dispersed grnulr systems, te current OpenMP-bsed prllelism restricts te cmputtinl resurces tt cn be emplyed. As  result,  ybrid prllelism tt integrtes OpenMP nd MPI cn be cnsidered in te future studies t extend te direct simultins int lrge scles.

\sectin{Cncluding remrks}

    As  fundmentl prblem in mny engineering pplictins, te interfce-reslved predictive mdeling f gs-slid flws is n ctive re f reserc nd requires ddressing  series f cllenges. Terefre, te develpment f n ccurte, efficient, nd rbust direct simultin numericl frmewrk cntributes t numericl metds pplied t cmplex gs-slid flw prblems. In dditin, te dvncement in understnding prticle clustering nd jet instbilities cn ptentilly cntribute t te develpment nd pplictin f  number f engineering prblems, including etergeneus explsives.

    Under te current ssumptins f nn-defrmble grins, te messcle grnulr dynmics lrgely depends n te pyld mrplgy s  result f pcking metds. Different pyld mrplgies cn develp vried sliding nd clliding lines, wic led t  crrespnding pttern fr pyld frcturing nd prticle clustering. Wit te rpid develpment f ig-perfrmnce cmputing tecnlgy, future direct simultins n stcstic pylds wit significntly incresed dmin sizes, number f prticles, nd slutin times re expected t led t  better understnding f te flw instbility in explsively dispersed grnulr pylds. It is suggested tt sttistics cllected frm  lrge number f messcle cmputtins bsed n rndm pyld mrplgies cn ptentilly evlve int  mcrscpic tery f multipse flw instbility fr prticle clustering nd jetting penmen widely bserved in mny res invlving dense gs-slid flws.

