\chapter{Summary and Future Work}
\label{cha:plan}

\section{Summary}

    The explosive dispersal of granular materials involves complex multiphase interactions, such as coupled shock-shock, shock-particle, and particle-particle interactions. Under high rates of momentum and energy transfer resulting from shock compaction and subsequent expansion flow, the mesoscale interactions are effectively enhanced and later are manifested via complex macroscale phenomena as the expansion proceeds. In particular, influencing the mass concentration and related particle reaction and energy release, the formation of coherent particle clustering and jetting structures is of significant interest to study flow instability and turbulent mixing in heterogeneous detonation and explosion.

    In order to better understand the dynamics of particle clustering and jetting behaviors, direct simulations that capture mesoscale multiphase interactions were adopted. Due to the difficulties in achieving the direct simulation of explosively dispersed granular materials, such as challenges associated with fluid-solid interaction, dynamic phase interface, mesh generation and regeneration, multibody contact and collision, complex interfacial condition, computational efficiency and robustness, and the presence of high-pressure shock waves, solely integrating existing numerical techniques was not able to obtain a capable computational solver. Therefore, new mathematical models and numerical methods that bridge the gap between the available methods and remaining problems were required. As a result, to study particle cluster and jet formation via direct simulations, this thesis included two major scopes: the development of a high-fidelity gas-solid flow solver and the numerical investigation on particle clustering and jetting instabilities in explosively dispersed granular materials.

    A numerical framework that integrates operator splitting for partitioned fluid-solid interaction in the time domain, 2nd/3rd order strong stability-preserving Runge--Kutta methods and 3rd/5th order weighted essentially nonoscillatory schemes for high-resolution tempo-spatial discretization, the front-tracking method for evolving phase interfaces, a new field function developed for facilitating the solution of complex and dynamic fluid-solid systems on Cartesian grids, a new collision model developed for deterministic multibody contact and collision with parameterized coefficients of restitution and friction, and a new immersed boundary method developed for treating arbitrarily irregular and moving boundaries has been developed and validated. On the basis of the developed framework, a Cartesian, 3D, high-resolution, parallelized, gas-solid flow solver has been created with the capability of tackling shocked flow conditions, irregular and moving geometries, and multibody collisions. The developed framework and solver can accurately, efficiently, and robustly solve coupled fluid-fluid, fluid-solid, and solid-solid interactions with flow conditions ranging from subsonic to hypersonic states.

     Employing the developed framework and solver, direct simulations that capture coupled multiphase interactions and deterministic mesoscale granular dynamics were conducted to investigate particle clustering and jetting instabilities. The numerical investigation considered a 2D stratified burster-payload configuration with a cylindrical charge shape, in which the particle positions and sizes were generated by a random sampling algorithm to achieve stochastic payload morphologies. Employing the theory of Gurney velocity, a valid statistical dissipative property of the framework in solving explosively dispersed granular materials was demonstrated. The predicted surface expansion velocities highly preserved the Gurney-energy-related velocity scaling law not only at the end of but also throughout the solution time. In addition, a dissipation analysis of the current discrete modeling of granular payloads suggests that incorporating the effects of porosity can enhance the prediction of Gurney velocity for explosively dispersed granular payloads. Using results obtained from direct simulations, an explanation for particle clustering and jetting instabilities was proposed.

\section{Future work}

In the investigation of particle cluster and jet formation, simplifications on the physical model have been made to outline the main features of the physical problem and to make the direct simulations feasible in the current stage. Nonetheless, alleviating the model simplifications could enhance the results and potentially lead to the discovery of new phenomena. Therefore, three main aspects of model improvements are discussed below and can be considered as the primary research topics for future work.

\paragraph{Multibody collision model}

In the current study, a deterministic multibody collision model built on exact pairwise collision is used. Although providing a deterministic approach for approximating multibody collision response with parameterized elasticity and friction, the current model is not able to solve multibody collisions in general exactly. Therefore, the development of a genuine multibody collision model can be of significant value in the mesoscale modeling of granular materials.

In addition, the computational load of a mesoscale model is lower bounded by the ratio between the largest and smallest resolved scales for the target system. Being computation-intensive, mesoscale modeling is currently not applicable to large-scale practical systems, for which macroscale modeling is still the most viable approach \citep{sen2018evaluation}. Therefore, the developed multibody collision model can be adopted to refine binary collision-based kinetic theories for granular materials. The refined kinetic theory can subsequently be used to develop enhanced closure laws for macroscale models covering flow regimes with varying agitation levels and dense-to-dilute transitions.

\paragraph{Deformation and fragmentation}

When granular materials are explosively dispersed, individual particles are compressed and accelerated by the surrounding high-pressure waves, experiencing collision, agglomeration, deformation, and even fragmentation. In the current study, particles are assumed to be non-deformable bodies. Therefore, in order to enhance the physics involved in direct simulations, future research can consider extending the current model with deformable bodies and fragmentation processes. For instance, the Mie--Gruneisen \citep{mie1908beitrage, gruneisen1912theorie} equation of state and the Johnson-Cook strength model \citep{johnson1985fracture} can be adopted to describe solids with deformation and fragmentation behaviors.

\paragraph{Parallelization and large-scale computation}

In the current investigation of particle cluster and jet formation, the maximum number of particles involved in the dispersal system is at the magnitude of $10^3$, which is far less than that in a practical payload and could limit the comparison between numerical results and experimentally observed particle cloud expansions. Therefore, simulations on stochastic payloads with larger sizes and longer run times are to be performed in future studies. To increase the number of particles inevitably demands a higher computational capacity. The parallelization of fluid-solid systems with dense particles imposes great challenges on the data communication and load balancing of MPI-based parallelism, as these systems generally do not conform to the Single Process, Multiple Data pattern of computation. Although being flexible in parallelizing large-scale dispersed granular systems, the current OpenMP-based parallelism restricts the computational resources that can be employed. As a result, a hybrid parallelism that integrates OpenMP and MPI can be considered in the future studies to extend the direct simulations into large scales.

\section{Concluding remarks}

    As a fundamental problem in many engineering applications, the interface-resolved predictive modeling of gas-solid flows is an active area of research and requires addressing a series of challenges. Therefore, the development of an accurate, efficient, and robust direct simulation numerical framework contributes to numerical methods applied to complex gas-solid flow problems. In addition, the advancement in understanding particle clustering and jet instabilities can potentially contribute to the development and application of a number of engineering problems, including heterogeneous explosives.

    Under the current assumptions of non-deformable grains, the mesoscale granular dynamics largely depends on the payload morphology as a result of packing methods. Different payload morphologies can develop varied sliding and colliding lines, which lead to a corresponding pattern for payload fracturing and particle clustering. With the rapid development of high-performance computing technology, future direct simulations on stochastic payloads with significantly increased domain sizes, number of particles, and solution times are expected to lead to a better understanding of the flow instability in explosively dispersed granular payloads. It is suggested that statistics collected from a large number of mesoscale computations based on random payload morphologies can potentially evolve into a macroscopic theory of multiphase flow instability for particle clustering and jetting phenomena widely observed in many areas involving dense gas-solid flows.

